---
layout: post
title: "ARVO 2018"
author: Peter Boone
date: 2019-04-24
---
### Preface
I will be attending ARVO 2019 shortly, so here is my experience from the 2018 conference that I wrote last year.
You can also read [this article](https://boonepeter.github.io/2019/04/23/2018-CRF-Special-Interest-Group.html) for more
detailed notes on the special interest group the CRF sponsored at ARVO.

## ARVO 2018
The annual meeting of ARVO (the Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology) took
place in Honolulu, Hawaii from April 28 th to May 3 rd , and was attended by over 11,000 researchers and
clinicians. The CRF was represented by foundation president Dr. Chris Moen, Randy Wheelock, and Peter
Boone. The conference was hosted in the Honolulu convention center which was a beautiful, semi open
space.

The conference was divided up into two sections: posters and presentations. In a large exhibit
hall more than 1,000 new posters were hung up every day, outlining smaller experiments and studies.
The main author of each poster would stand by it for a few hours to answer questions about their work.
On the floors above the exhibit hall presentations were given simultaneously in small auditoriums. Each
presentation session included 5-6 speakers who presented work for 15 minutes on a given topic. Using
the ARVO app was the best way to decide what to attend based on its relevance to the CRF and the
patient community.

There was a large amount of research being done which either directly involves Choroideremia
or is relevant to its treatment. Researchers presented cell-based therapies as a way of using stem cells
to restore vision or protect the remaining healthy retina. These cells can be injected as a suspension or
implanted on a thin scaffold as a sheet. Other work focused on gene therapy. This work included
ongoing clinical trials as well as basic research to improve the vector or delivery mechanism. Gene
therapy is the treatment which is furthest along in development and the interest in it was noticeable. Dr.
Robert MacLaren’s presentation on Nightstar’s Phase 1/2 clinical trial in patients with choroideremia
needed an overflow room to contain the interest. In addition to cell and gene therapies, others
presented work that further described Choroideremia and explored why vision is lost. The science that
was presented across the conference was exciting and promising. The awareness of choroideremia
continues to grow within the scientific community thanks to the ongoing clinical trials and the work of
the CRF.

In addition to exploring the science being presented, the CRF representatives were busy
networking. This networking took place in scheduled meetings with companies and current researchers
as well as spontaneously in front of posters and after presentations, often with people who had never
heard of the CRF. The primary reason the CRF went to ARVO was to interface with these scientists and
companies, coming alongside anyone and everyone who can help push the work towards a cure for
Choroideremia forward. We provided a patient perspective to the conference, brought researchers
together to collaborate, and researched potential projects and researchers to fund.

The CRF was formally involved in 2 events at ARVO. Chris Moen spoke on a panel as a patient
and non-profit representative in front of a group of researchers in a Science Communication Training
Fellowship. The goal of the fellowship is to increase scientist and ophthalmologist’s community
involvement and outreach skills. The researchers had questions such as “What is the best way to deliver
a diagnosis to a patient?” As a physician and someone with an eye disease, Chris was uniquely qualified
to help bridge that gap. The CRF also organized and hosted a special session to discuss different
methods of measuring the effectiveness of a treatment for patients with choroideremia in a clinical trial.
The session featured lively discussion weighing the pros and cons of different methods. You can read about the
details of that session [here](https://boonepeter.github.io/2019/04/23/2018-CRF-Special-Interest-Group.html).
