---
layout: post
title: ARVO 2022
author: Peter Boone
tags: ["choroideremia", "ARVO"]
date: 2022-05-10
draft: true
---

This year the annual [ARVO conference](https://www.arvo.org/annual-meeting/) took place in Denver, CO after being virtual for the past two years. Kathy Wagner, Jess Thomson, and I attended the conference to represent the Choroideremia Research Foundation. It was great to be in person so we could network and ask questions of the researchers and clinicians. Kathy did a great job of setting up meetings, including a productive meeting of the [International Choroideremia Research Network](https://www.curechm.org/icrn/).

A lot of great work related to Choroideremia was presented at ARVO, and in this article I will share some of the highlights. This work can be broken down into [basic science](#basic-science), [natural history](#natural-history), [adaptive optics](#adaptive-optics), and [clinical trials](#clinical-trials).

## Basic Science

[Lyes Toualbi](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/?term=Toualbi+L&cauthor_id=33652562), a PhD student at [University College London](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/), presented a poster on the use of [S/MAR (Scaffold/matrix attachment region)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scaffold/matrix_attachment_region) vectors to restore protein expression in zebrafish and human CHM cells.

S/MAR sequences are sequences of DNA that exist naturally in the human genome. These regions attatch to proteins in the nucleus of the cell which helps the cell organize the DNA structurally and regulate gene expression. Scientists realized that they could use these S/MAR sequences in vectors to enhance the expression of gene therapy products.

The particularly novel aspect of S/MAR sequences is that they enable __long term__ expression of genes. When gene therapy is delivered using AAV vectors, the vector is expected to be diluted (by ~50%) every time the [cell divides](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-020-78521-w#:~:text=The%20episomal%20nature%20of%20the%20recombinant%20genome%20does%20make%20it%20sensitive%20to%20dilution%20via%20cell%20division%2C%20however%2C%20active%20AAV%20genomes%20have%20been%20found%20in%20human%20post%2Dmortem%20tissue%2010%C2%A0years%20following%20delivery%20to%20non%2Ddividing%20cells28). In contrast, vectors with S/MAR sequences are replicated when cells divide and thus are not diluted. S/MAR vectors are often designed without any bacterial or viral DNA elements which reduces how much inflamation they can cause. [Dr. Richard Harbottle](https://www.dkfz.de/en/dna-vektoren/index.php) has been working on the use of these vectors for many years and was involved in this study. 

I this study, Toualbi used S/MAR vectors to express REP-1 protein in CHM zebrafish and CHM patient skin cells. The zebrafish were injected with CHM-S/MAR vectors at the __single cell__ stage, and after 6 days (and a lot of growth) still show expression of REP-1. In skin cells, Toualbi showed that some [prenylation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prenylation) function was restored by these vectors. In CHM patients, the lack of REP-1 [causes prenylation defects](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/11412856/) that can be measured. By restoring prenylation function, Toualbi showed not just that the REP-1 protein was being expressed, but also that it was functional.


Characterization of Deletions using Oxford Nanopore Long-Read Sequencing
Benjamin Mc Clinton


Random integration of AAV plasmid into the mouse genome following sub-retinal delivery
Michael Farkas

Efficiency of gene therapy via intravitreal injection in primate cones
Michelle Giarmarco, PhD


## Natural History

Correlation between fundus autofluorescence pattern and retinal sensitivity measured by microperimetry in patients with choroideremia
Federica Poli

Investigating central visual field loss and its effects on how patients read the ETDRS chart
Kwame Baffour-Awuah

Assessment of scotopic microperimetry as a functional marker in patients with inherited retinal disease.
Laura Taylor

Central Structural and Functional Abnormalities in Choroideremia: Longitudinal and Cross-sectional Observations from a Large Cohort of Patients
Erin O'Neil

Inadequacy of ICD Codes for Phenotyping Inherited Retinal Diseases
Gloria Nashed

(Paper) Natural history of the progression of choroideremia; 24-month follow-up
David Birch


## Adaptive Optics

Cone inner-segment area and circularity in chorioderemia assessed with split-detection adaptive optics scanning light ophthalmoscopy
Peiluo Xu

Visualization of the Photoreceptor / RPE / Choriocapillaris Complex in Choroideremia Using Adaptive Optics Enhanced Indocyanine Green Imaging
Nancy Aguilera

(Paper) Reliability and Reciprocity of the Population Cone Optoretinogram
Raymond Warner

(Paper) Characterization of fluorescently labeled photoreceptors observed in carriers of choroideremia using multimodal adaptive optics imaging
Andrew Bower, Ph.D.


## Clinical Trials


Four-year prospective follow-up in patients with CRB1-associated retinal dystrophies
Jessica Karuntu

Interim Safety Results in Two Phase 1/2 Open-label, Dose-escalation Clinical Trials of Subretinal Gene Therapy with AGTC-401 (rAAV2tYF-PR1.7-hCNGB3) and AGTC-402 (rAAV2tYF-PR1.7-hCNGA3) in Subjects with Achromatopsia (ACHM)
Alessandro Iannaccone


(Session) Considerations in the design and selection of outcome measures for emerging clinical trials of inherited retinal diseases (IRDs)

(Session) Improving data quality and interoperability through adoption and expansion of ophthalmic data standards

If you'd like some further reading, you can see some of my notes from other years at ARVO [here](/tags/arvo).