---
layout: post
title: "ARVO 2022 Prep"
author: Peter Boone
tags: ["choroideremia", "ARVO"]
date: 2022-04-25
---

The 2022 ARVO conference is taking place in Denver, CO. I am excited to be there networking and learning from the scientists in the field. Here are a few of the Choroideremia related posters and talks that I will be checking out:

## Sunday

### Cone inner-segment area and circularity in chorioderemia assessed with split-detection adaptive optics scanning light ophthalmoscopy - Peiluo Xu

CHM cones are bigger and more circular. 

### Visualization of the Photoreceptor / RPE / Choriocapillaris Complex in Choroideremia Using Adaptive Optics Enhanced Indocyanine Green Imaging - Nancy Aguilera

The RPE was the most disrupted layer.

## Tuesday

### Characterization of fluorescently labeled photoreceptors observed in carriers of choroideremia using multimodal adaptive optics imaging -- Andrew Bower

ICG = Iindocyanin green
In mice, the ICG shows up in RPE cells, but not in the photoreceptor layer. When detatched and uncubated, they are labeled (suggesting BBB stops the ICG). In female carriers, patches of ICG labeled cone receptors were observed. We might be able to determine integrety of BBB from this. 

### Optical coherence tomography angiography in inherited retinal disease -- Amy Lu

Literature search/review of OCTA use in IRDs

### Using non-viral S/MAR DNA vectors to restore protein expression in models of choroideremia -- Lyes Toualbi1

Evaluate SMAR delivery in Choroideremia zebrafish + cells.
Restored REP-1 expression with partial rescue in cells. Increase zebrafish lifespan by ~1 day. 


## Wednesday

### Correlation between fundus autofluorescence pattern and retinal sensitivity measured by microperimetry in patients with choroideremia -- Federica Poli

8/30 patients had distinct smooth and mottled regions in both eyes. Mottled regions were significantly less sensitive than expected.

### Investigating central visual field loss and its effects on how patients read the ETDRS chart -- Kwame Baffour-Awuah

Kinda odd: "Choroideremia patients seem less able to read the right compared to the left side of the EDTRS chart with the right but not left eye"

### Assessment of scotopic microperimetry as a functional marker in patients with inherited retinal disease -- Laura Taylor

### Central Structural and Functional Abnormalities in Choroideremia: Longitudinal and Cross-sectional Observations from a Large Cohort of Patients -- Erin O'Neil

n = 133

### Natural history of the progression of choroideremia; 24-month follow-up -- David Birch

n = 55

BCVA remained stable, but PFAF (peripheral fundus auto flourescence) and visual field parameters declined significantly. 

### Single cell resolution map of retinal pigment epithelium helps discover subpopulations with differential disease sensitivity -- David Ortolan

