---
layout: post
title: ARVO 2022 Wednesday
author: Peter Boone
tags: ["choroideremia", "ARVO"]
date: 2022-05-04
draft: true
---



Correlation between fundus autofluorescence pattern and retinal sensitivity measured by microperimetry in patients with choroideremia - Federica Poli

[what is microperimetry](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yLoYC6-phcw)

In this study, Dr. Poli examined the overlap of microperimetry with the FAF pattern. Particularly looked at mottled vs. smooth FAf autoflourescence.

Instead of using the "ideal" micropermitry, CHM patients were normalized to one control.



Inadequacy of ICD Codes for Phenotyping Inherited Retinal Diseases - Gloria Nashed

This reminded me that the CHM ICD code is somewhat misleading. CHM has the code [H31.21](https://www.icd10data.com/ICD10CM/Codes/H00-H59/H30-H36/H31-/H31.21). The code tree looks like this:

- H30-36 Disorders of choroid and retina
  - H31 Other disorders of choroid
    - H31.2 Hereditary choroidal dystrophy
      - H31.20 ...unspecified
      - H31.21 Choroideremia
  - H35 Other retinal disorders
    - H35.5 Hereditary retinal dystrophy
      - H35.50 Unspecified hereditary retinal dystrophy
      - H35.52 Pigmentary retinal dystrophy

If I was designing this from scratch, I would put Choroideremia under H35.5 instead of H31.2 since it is more of a general retinal degenerative disease than a choroidal disease. 

But it's nice that at least CHM has it's own code.


Investigating central visual field loss and its effects on how patients read the ETDRS chart - Kwame Baffour-Awuah

Use of non-viral episomal vectors as a large gene augmentation strategy for USH2A retinopathy


Single cell resolution map of retinal pigment epithelium helps discover subpopulations with differential disease sensitivity - Davide Ortolan


